Style Guide for Help Text (#5805)
aces/Loris: docs/HelpStyleGuide.md

  * Use `#H2` for any subheadings
  * Use `#H4` for sub-subheadings
* Avoid using HTML line break (`<br>`) tags—simply use physical line breaks (spaces between lines) where necessary. 
  * Using `<br>` might be necessary only in lists of items
  
  ## When to Use Emphasis
  
Whether a user knows it or not, they will come to recognize styles that are consistent throughout the text. This way, their eyes can jump to a part of the text that addresses their issue, if they don’t need to read the whole thing. Follow these rules on using emphasis:

* *Italicize* when referring to a specific place on the screen
  * i.e. in the Selection Filters section
  * i.e. in the Metadata column of the table
  * i.e. in the Imaging menu
* **Bold** when referring to any clickable button, including modules and tabs
  * DON’T call it a button
    * i.e. Click **Submit** (rather than “click the **Submit** button”)
  * DO call it a module or tab
    * i.e. In the **Imaging Browser** module
    * i.e. Click the **Upload** tab
  * You can also bold when defining features in a list, to separate the term being defined from the definition itself, i.e. when describing columns in a table:

>      **Column heading 1**: description

Reviewer: These aren't rendering on their own lines.  Take a look, @knoll-alex ?

Author: thanks! this should be fixed.

     **Column heading 2**: description<br>
     Etc.
     
## Tone

> Yes, LORIS is used for high-level research and yes, the people using LORIS are very smart and yes, we want people in the scientific community to take LORIS seriously. At the same time, the easier any user finds a text to read, the more they’ll retain and use the information. And a friendly tone will help them understand that LORIS is built and maintained by humans. There’s a lot of research that shows people will engage and have more patience with a piece of software when they’re reminded that there’s more than just a computer behind it. Using a more conversational tone will subtly have this effect. We’re not talking about humour and exclamation marks—just small tactics that make content as easy to understand as possible.

Reviewer 2: replace lines 48-50 with 
`LORIS is used by scientific community worldwide, this include countries where English is a second or even third language. Thus, it is important that LORIS documentation (instruction, help text, ...) be written in a way comprehensible by people with limited knowledge and understanding of English language and expression.`
or something more similar.

Reviewer: great suggestions @PapillonMcGill,  and this could probably be shortened as you suggest.

> Yes, LORIS is used for high-level research and yes, the people using LORIS are very smart and yes, we want people in the scientific community to take LORIS seriously. At the same time, the easier any user finds a text to read, the more they’ll retain and use the information. And a friendly tone will help them understand that LORIS is built and maintained by humans. There’s a lot of research that shows people will engage and have more patience with a piece of software when they’re reminded that there’s more than just a computer behind it. Using a more conversational tone will subtly have this effect. We’re not talking about humour and exclamation marks—just small tactics that make content as easy to understand as possible.

Reviewer 3: Do you have any references for "a lot of research" (both out of curiousity, and in case someone asks in the future) that could be referenced here?

Author: Hi @driusan - I removed this line (along with the rest of that paragraph), but still happy to provide some context to this claim. I added an article at the end that talks about Plain Language, and cites a usability study that was conducted in scientific fields. I hope this will suffice!

* Use second person point of view rather than third
  * i.e. “This module allows *you* to browse…” (rather than “This module allows *users* to browse…”)
* Keep it concise. Avoid unnecessary information.
  * Try not to be repetitive. 
  * i.e. the Help text for the Imaging Browser module begins with the title Imaging Browser. You don’t need to start text with “In the Imaging Browser module...”, because the user already knows the module based on the title. Instead, keep it short and say “In this module…”
* Assume the user is tech-savvy enough in the year 2020 to know about features that are intuitive or common across modern platforms, so you don’t need to repeat in every Help text
  * i.e. clicking the column headers to re-sort a table
  * i.e. clicking a Download button to download something
  * i.e. navigate pages of a table using the arrows provided
* Use [Plain Language](https://www.plainlanguage.gov/resources/articles/elements-of-plain-language/)

>   * As a guideline, refer to [this list](https://www.plainlanguage.gov/guidelines/words/use-simple-words-phrases/) of words to avoid, and alternate suggestions 

Reviewer 2: I don't like that we refer to foreign government rules. Not only theses can change without us noticing but they may not be the best in our situation.

Reviewer: @PapillonMcGill I think we could still include these links for context(inspiration), without saying that we are strictly following them -- would you be ok with that?

# Style Guide for User-Facing Help Text in LORIS

Help text exists as an on-screen guide for users, to add context and provide instructions to using all of the features in LORIS. It is always accessed by clicking the question mark in the top right menu bar in LORIS, as seen below:

![Help Text](/docs/images/helptext.png)

## How to Store and Name Files

Help text content is stored into the aces/Loris repo as markdown (.md) files within the help/subdirectory of the module it belongs to. For example, the Help text for Imaging Browser main page is located here: `modules/imaging_browser/help/imaging_browser.md`. 

Some modules have more than one Help text file to correspond with subpages. These files exist in the same `help/` folder, but are named differently - they must match exactly the php/file name that spawns the page. For example, the Imaging Browser module has a subpage called “ViewSession”. Its help file is stored as: `modules/imaging_browser/help/viewsession.md`. 

## Markdown

> Formatting should follow markdown guidelines, with some exceptions. This is because LORIS’s current markdown template may not cover all possible markdown features (i.e. bullets). Help text should not include HTML tags for security reasons. When creating a markdown file, use only the following styles, or else talk to the LORIS technical team about expanding our Markdown features:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Formatting should follow markdown guidelines, with some exceptions. This is because LORIS’s current markdown template may not cover all possible markdown features (e.g. bullets). Help text cannot be formatted with HTML so it should not be included in help text. When creating a markdown file, use only the following styles, or else talk to the LORIS technical team about expanding our Markdown features:
```

Using "e.g." instead of "i.e." because there are many other Markdown features we don't support.

Also rewording the bit about HTML; it doesn't pose a security problem for us as the values are properly escaped. However it might make the text look funny so it's best to avoid it.

> Formatting should follow markdown guidelines, with some exceptions. This is because LORIS’s current markdown template may not cover all possible markdown features (e.g. bullets). Help text cannot be formatted with HTML so it should not be included in help text. When creating a markdown file, use only the following styles, or else talk to the LORIS technical team about expanding our Markdown features:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Formatting should follow markdown guidelines, with some exceptions. This is because LORIS’s current markdown renderer may not cover all possible markdown features (e.g. bullets). Help text cannot be formatted with HTML so it should not be included in help text. When creating a markdown file, use only the following styles, or else talk to the LORIS technical team about expanding our Markdown features:
```

This is more accurate

* `*Italics*`
* `**Bold**`
* `***Italics and Bold***`
* `# Heading 1` up to `###### Heading 6`
  * Use `#H1` for the name of the module at the beginning of the help text
  * Use `#H2` for any subheadings
  * Use `#H4` for sub-subheadings
* Avoid using HTML line break (`<br>`) tags—simply use physical line breaks (spaces between lines) where necessary. 
  * Using `<br>` might be necessary only in lists of items
  

>   ## When to Use Emphasis

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## When to Use Emphasis
```

I think this needs to be left-aligned in order to render properly as as heading.

> Whether a user knows it or not, they will come to recognize styles that are consistent throughout the text. This way, their eyes can jump to a part of the text that addresses their issue, if they don’t need to read the whole thing. Follow these rules on using emphasis:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whether a user knows it or not, they will come to recognize styles that are consistent throughout the text. This way, their eyes can jump to a part of the text that addresses their issue, and they don’t need to read the whole thing. Follow these rules on using emphasis:
```

The flow of the sentence is hard to follow because of the "," before "if".. changing it to "and" makes it easier for me to understand (or you could drop the comma, but then it would be a long sentence..)

* *Italicize* when referring to a specific place on the screen
  * i.e. in the Selection Filters section
  * i.e. in the Metadata column of the table
  * i.e. in the Imaging menu
* **Bold** when referring to any clickable button, including modules and tabs
  * DON’T call it a button
    * i.e. Click **Submit** (rather than “click the **Submit** button”)
  * DO call it a module or tab
    * i.e. In the **Imaging Browser** module
    * i.e. Click the **Upload** tab

>   * You can also use bold when defining features in a list, to separate the term being defined from the definition itself, i.e. when describing columns in a table:<br>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * You can also use bold when defining features in a list, to separate the term being defined from the definition itself, e.g. when describing columns in a table:<br>
```

>   * You can also use bold when defining features in a list, to separate the term being defined from the definition itself, e.g. when describing columns in a table:<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * You can also use bold when defining features in a list to separate the term being defined from the definition itself, e.g. when describing columns in a table:<br>
```

I don't think English grammar calls for a comma here.

     **Column heading 1**: description<br>
     **Column heading 2**: description<br>
     Etc.
     
## Tone

> LORIS is used by scientific community members worldwide, which means it's possible that most users are non-native English speakers. Therefore, it is important that LORIS documentation (setup guides, etc.) be written in a way that is quickly comprehensible by people with many different levels of English language and expression.

Reviewer 2: ```
... LORIS documentation (setup guides, etc.) ...
```
Why `help text` as been eliminated?  An enumeration with only 1 value before `etc`is not proper.

Author: oops! added it back in

Reviewer: my bad prolly

> LORIS is used by scientific community worldwide, including countries where English is a second, or even third language. Therefore, it is important that LORIS documentation (help text, setup guides, etc.) be written in a way that it comprehensible by people with limited knowledge and understanding of English language and expression.

Reviewer: To shorten, and fix 2 grammar issues: 
```suggestion
LORIS is used by scientific community members worldwide, which means it's possible that most users are non-native English speakers. Writing our Help text or any LORIS documentation (setup guides, etc.) in a way that it is quickly comprehensible by people with many different levels of English language and expression.
```

Reviewer 2: `... in a way that is quickly ...`

I would just do a little change to the last sentence.

Reviewer: Ok thanks - i updated my suggestion to include your change @PapillonMcGill

> LORIS is used by scientific community members worldwide, which means it's possible that most users are non-native English speakers. Therefore, it is important that LORIS documentation (help text, setup guides, etc.) be written in a way that is quickly comprehensible by people with many different levels of English language and expression.

Reviewer 3: English language what and expression?

Reviewer 4: Maybe it would be more clear to say

```suggestion
LORIS is used by scientific community members worldwide, which means it's possible that most users are non-native English speakers. Therefore, it is important that LORIS documentation (help text, setup guides, etc.) be written in a way that is concise, clear, and free of needlessly ambiguous or complicated words.
```

Reviewer 3: I like that better.. I was also a little confused about what users were expressing while reading the help text..

> This means using more direct language and tone to get information across to the user in the least amount of time, with the least amount of friction. The quicker a user understands something, the happier they are.  Easily understandable documentation also builds trust in the software, in addition to decreasing the amount of support questions we get.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This means using more direct language and tone to get information across to the user in the least amount of time, with the least amount of friction. The quicker a user understands something, the happier they are. Easily understandable documentation also builds trust in the software, in addition to decreasing the amount of support questions we get.
```

> Please note, this is NOT about “dumbing things down”. It’s simply about using the most direct language and tone to get the information across to the user in the least amount of time, with the least amount of friction. The quicker a user understands something, the happier they are, the more trust they have with the software, and the less silly questions you can expect to get to the dev mailing list! 

Reviewer: Paring this down just a little, after chatting with @PapillonMcGill 
```suggestion
This means using more direct language and tone to get information across to the user in the least amount of time, with the least amount of friction. The quicker a user understands something, the happier they are.  Easily understandable documentation also builds trust in the software, in addition to decreasing the amount of support questions we get.
```

* Use second person point of view rather than third
  * i.e. “This module allows *you* to browse…” (rather than “This module allows *users* to browse…”)
* Keep it concise. Avoid unnecessary information.
  * Try not to be repetitive. 
  * i.e. the Help text for the Imaging Browser module begins with the title Imaging Browser. You don’t need to start text with “In the Imaging Browser module...”, because the user already knows the module based on the title. Instead, keep it short and say “In this module…”

> * Assume the user is tech-savvy enough in the year 2020 to know about features that are intuitive or common across modern platforms, so you don’t need to repeat in every Help text

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Assume the user is tech-savvy enough to know about features that are intuitive or common across modern platforms, so you don’t need to repeat in every Help text
```

I see why this was added stylistically but I know that we'll forget to keep this current.

  * e.g. clicking the column headers to re-sort a table
  * e.g. clicking a Download button to download something
  * e.g. navigate pages of a table using the arrows provided
* Use Plain Language
  * Avoid words that you wouldn't use in everyday speech

> * Where relevant, introduce an abbreviation once and then use that abbreviation for the rest of the copy in that help text (e.g. introduce Quality Control = QC in a help text title, then only call it QC throughout the text)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Where relevant introduce an abbreviation once and then use that abbreviation for the rest of the copy in that help text (e.g. introduce Quality Control = QC in a help text title, then only call it QC throughout the text)
```

I don't think this comma is necessary either.

Reviewer 4: I think the comma is better than no comma. 

Maybe the "Where relevant" can be removed from the beginning of the sentence though. The sentence stands on its own without it.

Or maybe "When introducing an abbreviation, use it once and then...'"

Reviewer 3: I don't feel strongly about this particular comma.

Reviewer 4: Nor I
